Name: Hong Yue Wang \
Student Number: 300105373 \
Submission For: SEG 4105 Tutorial 4 Bet

# Chapter 7

Pitches don't go into the backlog (which are a big waste of time due the accumulation of old tasks and the grooming and organizing of old ideas); they go onto a betting table where stakeholders periodically decide on pitches from the last six weeks. If a pitch is chosen, it proceeds onto the next work cycle, if not, it is discarded. If a valuable idea is not chosen, people can track it individually and vouch for it in a future meeting. There is not need to keep a centralized backlog, which means teams can keep their own lists of ideas.

# Chapter 8

The shapeup cycle lasts 6 weeks. This timespan allows for a cycle long enough to finish an entire project, but short enough to see the end from the beginning. There's also a cooldown period of 2 weeks in between each cycle for team members to rest, meet and decide what to do next. Programmers and designers will also have time to work on their own projects and explore new ideas. Team and project sizes also have to be standardized. Teams usually have one designer and one to two programmers per team. The team can either work on a single project for the entire cycle or multiple smaller projects. The betting table meeting is held during the cooldown period. The bets to consider are either new pitches or old pitches. The betting table at Basecamp consists of the CEO, CTO, a senior programmer and a product strategist. Bets have specific payouts. They are commitments: teams are working exclusively on a feature without interruptions for six weeks. Also, with bets, the most we have to lose is six weeks. When you make a bet, you do not let team members to be distracted or pulled away by something else. 
# Chapter 9

The approach how to how we're betting and shaping depend on whether we're building a new product or trying to improve an existent one. We follow the standard shape up process for existing products. We do six week cycles, we bet on pitches and expected team members to finish work after 6 weeks. We integrate new features into the product after each cycle. For new products, there are three phases: R&D, production and cleanup. The R&D mode is all about uncertainty and experimentation where the team is expected to learn by building. Production is next, where critical architecture decisions are made and the shipping of features are prioritized. The last phase before launch is the cleanup mode where we address remaining issues and details. The betting process involves asking quetions such as assessing the importance of the problem, matching the appetite for the project's duration and ensuring that team members are available.