Name: Hong Yue Wang \
Student Number: 300105373 \
Submission For: SEG 4105 Tutorial 2 - Shaping

# Chapter 2
When shaping the work, we can't be too vague or too concrete. Specific work hinders creativity and abstract work like simple words lacks context. The example given is the design of the Basecamp calendar. The rough sketch made by the designer left out many details and thus left room for interpretation. But at the same time, the drawing was specific enough to show how the calendar should work and what needs to be built. Shaped work is defined by the following properties: it's rough (you can tell it's unfinished by looking at it), it's solved (it's been thought through), and it's bounded (it indicates what not to do). Shaping requires combining interface ideas with technical possibilities with business priorities.

# Chapter 3
The first step to shaping is setting boundaries by determining if the idea is something we would be able to invest time in as well as if it is necessary. This is called setting the appetite and it is the opposite of an estimate. Instead of starting with a design and ending with a time, we start with a fixed time constraint and end with a design that fits within said time frame. There is no absolute definite of "good", only the "best" relative to your constraints. It's important to not immediately accept or reject ideas that we don't fully understand but instead respond with a soft "no" or "maybe someday" to leave all options open. We also need to narrow down our understanding of the problem, which can reduce the amount of work.

# Chapter 4
To convert a problem in words into a software solution with elements, we must design at the right level of abstraction. A way of doing this is by breadboarding, which is essentially fleshing out components and connections without a particular visual design. However, for ideals that are more visual, fat marker sketches. They are sketches made with such broad strokes that adding details is difficult or impossible. 
# Chapter 5
We must be wary of holes in the shaped work that could derail the whole project. Often, they won't simply derail the project but they have no apparent solution. When work is well-shaped, it looks like a thin-tailed probability distribution, but when there are holes in the shaping, the right tail stretches out. In order to find rabbit holes in the work, we must look for unfair assumptions, hard decisions that must settled in advance, and prior experience with the technical work. It's important to explicitly declare work that is out of bounds. Unnecessary work must also be cut back and technical experts should be consulted at this phase to determine if all the work presented is possible.